# led-dodging-game
The goal of the LED Dodging game is to try and dodge oncoming yellow LED lights by controlling a green LED light left or right away from an approaching yellow light. The player should try to survive as long as possible by not allowing the yellow light to hit the green light. 

Key Technical Elements 

There are a total of 20 yellow LED light bulbs on two breadboards above two Arduino Uno microcontrollers that are connected to each other via I2C communication. 4 columns of five yellow LEDs are lined up vertically on each side, connected to individual pins on the Arduino board using one wire and a 120-ohm resistor each. 4 green LEDs are at the bottom under the last yellow bulb in each column, and connected to the “Slave” Arduino board using one ground wire and a 330-ohm resistor per green LED. 

Placed below the Arduino Uno microcontrollers, there is another breadboard positioned horizontally with two buttons, one on each side. They are connected to their own digital pins to the left “Slave” Arduino board using a wire and a 10-kilohm resistor each. On this breadboard, there is also a photoresistor placed in the middle and it is connected to an analog pin on the left, “Slave”, Arduino board with wires and a 10-kilohm resistor. Next to the photoresistor, there is a red LED light bulb connected to a digital pin on the right, “Master”, Arduino board using wires and a 120-ohm resistor.  

There is a fourth breadboard on the right side of the Arduino boards. On this breadboard, there is a liquid crystal display connected to digital pins on the right “Master” Arduino board with wires and a 330-ohm resistor. There is also a potentiometer on this breadboard connected to the “Master” Arduino board and the LCD uses it as its variable resistor to control resolution of the text. A 330-ohm resistor is used for the LED backlight of the LCD. 

When one of the buttons get pressed, a random yellow LED light bulb on the far end of any column turns on. It then turns off and the next one in the same column but further down closer to the green LED turns on. The column in the top row where the yellow LED turns on changes randomly with an initial delay of 1 second that gets 20 milliseconds quicker at the end of each loop function in the code down to a minimum of 100 milliseconds. When the button on the right is pressed, the green LED that is currently on turns off and the next one over to the right turns on. When the button on the left is pressed, the green LED that is currently on turns off and the next green LED on the left turns on. This simulates the user's player and its movement in this game. The red LED light bulb in between the buttons turns on to indicate the player has lost when the currently turned on green LED’s current column position on the bottom row matches the bottom current turned on yellow LED’s column. The LCD displays the number of seconds survived before the player lost when the green and yellow light “hit” each other in this way. 
